Windy Borjas: Hi.
Windy Borjas: Can you hear me.
Yes.
Windy Borjas: So sorry I'm late.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: How are you
Windy Borjas: I'm
Windy Borjas: I'm better today. Today was a better day
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So I'm not remember me from the other group.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Setting that assists dominate. I'm Jessica. Come on.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Up and coming to your bio psychosocial so I'm glad that you were able to make it.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: I'm going to be trying to get as much information as possible about your past and present history as well as your function in your family function. Okay.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So I'll be asking lots of questions. This isn't necessarily a therapy session. If you would like therapy after this session, I would definitely encourage that. And then we can talk about that in more detail because my schedule. Okay.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Okay, let me start because I have another appointment at five, and I want to make sure I get all of the meat and potatoes. First, in case that person.
Windy Borjas: Okay.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So tell me, Wendy, what brings you to the program.
Windy Borjas: Well,
Windy Borjas: Um,
Windy Borjas: I suffered with it for a long time.
Windy Borjas: Since I was really young.
Windy Borjas: Pain medication heroin and this boxing program has been the only program that's ever
Windy Borjas: Really helped me you know get clean and stay clean and
Windy Borjas: Honestly, I click I still to this day can't even give myself a good answer to this question as to why
Windy Borjas: I went to the Methadone
Windy Borjas: I was on Suboxone and then they switched me to subby Tex overspending years when I got pregnant, the sub effects.
Windy Borjas: And then weaned off slowly so that way when I had my daughter. She wouldn't would withdraw.
Windy Borjas: And I did good for after I gave birth.
Windy Borjas: For, you know, years we me and her father, both addicts.
Windy Borjas: Um, he's in prison right now.
Windy Borjas: Serving 16 years. Wow. He just got sent out like with with over the last three weeks.
Windy Borjas: And
Windy Borjas: We did so good for so long.
Windy Borjas: Until we stop, I guess.
Windy Borjas: Not stopped caring. We just I think matured a tiny bit. And we had our own place had a baby had vehicles financially stable. I think we had it in our minds that we were
Windy Borjas: mature adults. And that's how it was gonna remain until we got old and our kids grew up. You know what I mean, like, like as if relapse.
Windy Borjas: Was cured for both of us. Yeah. And I believe you know our boundaries him.
Windy Borjas: None
Windy Borjas: No insight and
Windy Borjas: I came to buy our house because
Windy Borjas: He's the one who told me about it, actually the first time they
Windy Borjas: Let him get released
Windy Borjas: He only stayed out a month, but he
Windy Borjas: Got enrolled with you guys and I think He only went, he only got doing two weeks.
Windy Borjas: And then he ended up going back to do
Windy Borjas: So that
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Right now.
Windy Borjas: Yeah, that's where I found out about you guys from his from him when he got out because he didn't
Windy Borjas: Like me on the Methadone
Windy Borjas: I, I didn't mind it. But I honestly felt. I liked it more for the feeling of it, rather than the feeling of being off of the drugs.
Windy Borjas: Yeah, it just became
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: A need you.
Windy Borjas: Know, yeah. And
Windy Borjas: It didn't keep me from, you know, doing heroin, if I chose to if I wanted to, I could do it because i don't i didn't have that fear.
Windy Borjas: I would, I love Suboxone because that and the locks it in there that's enough to to keep your mind straight when it comes to you know mean
Windy Borjas: backstabbing and relaxing and stuff, because I know that's what my greatest one of my biggest fear still to this day that I'm fighting to overcome is withdraw. Yeah.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You're not the only one that's a lot of a lot of patients in this program and just in general, that's the biggest fear of filling the withdrawal symptoms again.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Because that right there will be an onset of relax. Yeah, so I I commend you for being committed to your recovery, despite all the things that's going on the, you know,
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: The spouse, the father of your child is going to jail for a long time and you know you just told me about for I'll get more into that, but I want to know more about the past, how did you get here. When did the addiction start. How old were you first started using
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Any drug
Windy Borjas: The first thing I ever used was marijuana
Windy Borjas: HOW OLD WERE YOU. I WAS gosh
Windy Borjas: I'm gonna say 10 910
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: What was going on around that time that one had access to the marijuana and to decide to use
Windy Borjas: My older sister, happened to be
Windy Borjas: spending the night with me, and she was smoking.
Windy Borjas: She didn't offer or peer pressure or nothing, she actually was scared, but she wasn't very much older and I think she found it actually in my older brother's
Windy Borjas: room or in his backpack or something.
Windy Borjas: And I honestly can't even really I don't recall
Windy Borjas: Why like
Windy Borjas: Any negative or any any reason that I didn't think it was just something to do. I was a kid, I mean, I was just, you know, in the
Windy Borjas: Repeated terms, I guess you could say I was having fun.
Windy Borjas: Because I really was like, I didn't go myself at that age.
Windy Borjas: I was still playing with toys with dolls, I would ask my mom permission to go to my room to play when she was in the living room like I was a baby still
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: After the marijuana. What did you try me.
Windy Borjas: That was the last time I tried it at once and
Windy Borjas: I mean, all through elementary school, nothing.
Windy Borjas: My seventh grade year, nothing.
Windy Borjas: Marijuana I did start smoking marijuana
Windy Borjas: Again, when I got a little older, I tried it, that once and then never again did it. And then I think I will.
Windy Borjas: I want to say.
Windy Borjas: Like 14 1314 when I started getting it by myself.
Windy Borjas: And I'm from Espanola
Windy Borjas: I was born in Blackfoot idol.
Windy Borjas: Raised in Espanola in the Mexico heroin capital of the world. And I mean, I don't know if you're familiar with it.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Well, I'm from Florida.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Florida. So there is a surplus of variety judges because of the tourist attraction, but in the work that I've been doing with patients in New Mexico.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: It seems as though the opioid epidemic is very, very significant in Mexico Asia's access everywhere.
Windy Borjas: Yep, so was
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: There one. Oh, when did you like venture into positive stuff.
Windy Borjas: Um,
Windy Borjas: Gosh. It wasn't until I was
Windy Borjas: Like 1718
Windy Borjas: Okay, no, let's say, okay, well now that you really actually put my brain to work and I'm really thinking back to the beginning of my addiction. The real beginning
Windy Borjas: I mean the marijuana, the one time. Never again. And then I started when I was 1314 and I continued, whenever I could get it.
Windy Borjas: I love marijuana still to this day, I do, I do not see it as a drug to a certain extent.
Windy Borjas: I'm glad that you know there's
Windy Borjas: New ways of them, showing that it's not just a drug like heroin or cocaine or math or any of the bad ones.
Windy Borjas: But honestly I feel I became an addict.
Windy Borjas: I don't know the right term for it, like in directly
Windy Borjas: Innocently
Windy Borjas: Unintentionally
Windy Borjas: I remember
Windy Borjas: Trying a Suboxone
Windy Borjas: The when they were pills. They look like stop signs.
Windy Borjas: I remember when those were on the streets god that was so long so long ago I was in eighth grade, okay. And I did a tiny, tiny, tiny little nothing like a dust.
Windy Borjas: And oh my goodness. It got me and my sister so sick.
Windy Borjas: I assume now that I think about it, then the locks in and how strong
Windy Borjas: Types were the stop sign ones. Yeah. Um, I never tried it again after that and in
Windy Borjas: My whole heroin addiction. It was never honestly like anybody. I knew and got high with God drugs from or four never really put it in my view, it's crazy. I remember
Windy Borjas: A point in time having so many
Windy Borjas: Just there in two, three drawers.
Windy Borjas: Because, you know, they mean but I was
Windy Borjas: Boxing Harry. Yeah, but I was carrying around ounces of heroin and getting high.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: We're getting high with
Windy Borjas: Me as much as possible.
Windy Borjas: Um,
Windy Borjas: It's always been the boyfriend.
Windy Borjas: The friend the best friend. I no longer believe in friends. But while use that term repentance.
Windy Borjas: Those seems to be the ones that were like the partners in crime. But back to the beginning. So when I started, you know, using marijuana. I'm more regularly. When I got a little older, I ended up dislocating my knee.
Windy Borjas: And tearing the are ripping the ligament right underneath the kneecap.
Windy Borjas: My birthday, when I was
Windy Borjas: 13 or 14. It was around the same around the same time that I really started using marijuana regularly.
Windy Borjas: That's it. I 15 as low as 15 because I had already been smoking marijuana for like a year, year and a half, you know, 1516 I had that injury. I never got surgery for it, they were able to just get it to sit back with
Windy Borjas: rapping and a little like a brace.
Windy Borjas: I never remember getting a cast. I never remember getting surgery. Never have.
Windy Borjas: But
Windy Borjas: That's the reason for me ever even needing to
Windy Borjas: Put
Windy Borjas: Pharmaceutical drugs into my body.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: For pain.
Yeah.
Windy Borjas: And
Windy Borjas: I never
Windy Borjas: Even knew what addiction was to tell you to. I just remember being sick. I don't even remember what it feels like to be sober to, to be honest. Like, I don't, I don't know what it feels like to wake up every day on a daily basis for years and years and years.
Windy Borjas: With no substance no marijuana know cigarette know whatever drug, you know, I mean, it may be for me at that point in time.
Windy Borjas: I really don't.
Windy Borjas: Know, only thing I can think of it is what it feels like to be a kid.
Windy Borjas: Like
Windy Borjas: No.
Windy Borjas: I don't want to say no care in the world because I don't like that saying I like it said better no stress in the world. Yeah.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: We don't prescribe the medication for for the year.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: What would you describe what the doctor prescribing
Windy Borjas: excessive amounts of Lord tab 10 milligram. The Watsons and blue ones ovals. The
Windy Borjas: green ones as well. I am beginning both 10 milligrams. One was green. One was blue. They're both what they will said, Watson, I believe they're both Lord tab. And I remember getting the Percocet.
Windy Borjas: 7.5 milligrams and then
Windy Borjas: Another point 10 milligrams
Windy Borjas: There. I remember points in times where I had scripts of
Windy Borjas: To kind of learn tab in a Percocet, or to purchase it and alarm tab like
Windy Borjas: They were have like small doses, but it just seemed like they for the way they treated it and my age.
Windy Borjas: It was excessive now that I think about it as
Windy Borjas: I'm older. You know what I mean like it honestly makes me wanna call my mom and ask her a lot of questions.
Yeah.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: That age.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: My age to current
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Age. What we use the Lord HAVE TO WHAT ELSE.
Windy Borjas: I'm Laura tab percocet oxy cotton Hydra code on
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Other opioids.
Windy Borjas: Hair heroin.
Windy Borjas: Marijuana, Cocaine.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You ever. Did you ever get any you mentioned the Methadone
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Whether it there. Any other types of programs that you intend to try to stop using
Windy Borjas: Know, I honestly
Windy Borjas: Like I just said I never even really knew what Suboxone was what what it was labeled at that time in
Windy Borjas: Point in my life was
Windy Borjas: Fake heroin. I remember my mom used to always be talking about it. I don't know why they invented that all it is is just fake heroin. It's not no here. It's not going to happen just replacing one addiction with another
Windy Borjas: And, you know, then I just remember, I would always think to myself, you know, like
Windy Borjas: Questions about what she was saying, but I never press the issue because in my eyes. We didn't have that in my family.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: No one. No one, you
Windy Borjas: Say your family. No, they are everybody did
Windy Borjas: Okay, but
Windy Borjas: They made sure that from my point of view.
Windy Borjas: And my understanding.
Windy Borjas: Nobody ever did.
Windy Borjas: That it was wrong and it, it was like one of the worst things you could become was an addict and it would leave you with nothing homeless on the streets, no family.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Not ready
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: How do they teach you these narratives, if they will use it.
Windy Borjas: I
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Your mom and your dad I
Windy Borjas: Am I guess the only the only word I can think of is lying.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So when they, when they turn to cover their addiction or when they, it was clear that they they were addicts, but they were like trying to tell you
Windy Borjas: Otherwise, I'm trying. I never, I never knew my, my parents and
Windy Borjas: It wasn't until I was like in high school that I actually really heard it from somebody else that knows my mom actually need some stories about her that I actually knew like I'm talking like they made sure to a tee.
Windy Borjas: That
Windy Borjas: There was, it was just not in our family, not in my genes, not in
Windy Borjas: Anyone's or, you know, I mean, in
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: The past like they did in the past. I'm going to be
Windy Borjas: Gone. Just because just because I don't know.
Windy Borjas: They are like
Windy Borjas: I can put up this front that it's
Windy Borjas: picture perfect when it's how behind doors, pretty much. Okay.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So while you were child they were using. They were just hide it.
Windy Borjas: Yeah. Well, obviously I'm
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Wondering, you know,
Windy Borjas: What I never saw it. But see, it's not like they were there shooting up drugs and there was paraphernalia and drugs everywhere they got talking like like alcohol, um,
Windy Borjas: So they might remember my mom being gone, sometimes you know weeks at a time to just cut me off one day and never come back and then show up one day and I just miss her so much.
Windy Borjas: I'd be so happy to see her.
Windy Borjas: I would ignore how
Windy Borjas: How disgusted. I was in her
Windy Borjas: Just
Windy Borjas: It makes
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Me. Yeah, yeah.
Windy Borjas: I just never, you know what I mean.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Connected the backs of their, their, you know, dropping you off and neglect and they're in attention to you, actually, because of their addiction, because you never saw the paraphernalia never saw any of it, but their actions. Now you were able to put the pieces together. Okay.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So how old were you when you
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Started doing the Methadone clinic to treat
Windy Borjas: That was just recently.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Okay, so it was that, and then the next was us. You
Know,
Windy Borjas: It was my whole addiction and then
Windy Borjas: In
Windy Borjas: It was a December 2013 January 2014 I ended up hospitalized.
Windy Borjas: I was still full blown heroin addict knows probably doing at least
Windy Borjas: anywhere from three to six grams and me by myself. I'm mostly a smoker.
Windy Borjas: I would inject if it wasn't good. And I couldn't get well yeah um
Windy Borjas: I remember it was that winter I hadn't gotten sick and I
Windy Borjas: I either don't get sick all winter or I get one bad bad one.
Windy Borjas: I've been like that. My whole life and that year. I hadn't gotten sick. I hadn't gotten sick. It was already the year was going to be ending. A NEW YEAR WAS STARTING I was just on my own mission. I was staying place to place.
Windy Borjas: Renting rooms. I mean, I would take dope flip dope make money.
Windy Borjas: To provide you know a room gas in my car food, clothes, whatever I wanted. Just so I wouldn't have to stay at home and have rules.
Windy Borjas: And not get high.
Windy Borjas: Like I feel like
Windy Borjas: I went like the transformation happened so fast for me.
Windy Borjas: I right now at this moment and barely seeing it like come together.
Windy Borjas: Like
Windy Borjas: I dislocated my leg. I had an injury. I was just taking the medication. The doctor told my mom to give me
Windy Borjas: And
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: That was the onset of wanting the opium.
I'm
Windy Borjas: Slightly eventually. Yeah. Because I remember waking up one day filling withdrawals in some symptoms. I didn't know what they were. But I remember actually being kept home from school because it was being treated as like a cold or the flu.
Windy Borjas: Like, I don't know if it didn't occur.
Windy Borjas: To anybody that it could happen that fast. Or if I was just so young that my mom didn't, you know, I don't know. I really don't. I
Windy Borjas: You know me and my mom have a
Windy Borjas: Difficult relationship and she's never really given me that respect to clarify, even now that I'm older.
Windy Borjas: Like, it's just a touchy subject for her. And I understand. I know she has a lot of, you know, like hate for herself.
Windy Borjas: For
Windy Borjas: I guess making me resentful toward her. I understand now though only because my daughter.
Windy Borjas: My daughter is what
Windy Borjas: has taught me pretty much everything I know and understand about myself in my addiction.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So I want to get some medical history where you ever hospitalized because you were a threat to yourself or to others.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Meaning that you have suicidal thoughts or you executed.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: For suicide.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Or do you have any current thoughts of wanting to harm yourself.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Did you ever go to like a detox and rehab outpatient facility to treat your addiction.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And then he said he tried to methadone. That was in 2013 or
Windy Borjas: 14 oh oh no that was reason I was like last year last year methadone was second to last you guys are the last
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Got it. So last year was the Methadone clinic that was outpatient and your boyfriend told you that this program was better than you older not program. Right. Okay. Are you up to date on your flu pneumonia and meningitis vaccine.
Windy Borjas: Um, honestly, I don't. Yeah, I want to say, Allah. I'm not too sure. Okay. Do you
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Have any diagnosis mental health diagnosis.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: medical diagnosis.
Windy Borjas: Of anxiety.
Windy Borjas: Depression.
Windy Borjas: I believe
Windy Borjas: Me and my mom were told bipolar disorder.
Windy Borjas: And
Windy Borjas: I can never remember what they called it um
Windy Borjas: I guess I though I I will describe it as like a attention deficit disorder. Okay. Okay.
Windy Borjas: Add yeah like my mind. I don't know. I felt like my mind is a lot different than what it should, or what it's
Windy Borjas: Put could be made to be, I don't know if because of what is normal, really. You know what I mean.
Yeah.
Windy Borjas: I mean we're we're humans. Nobody even knows what we are supposed to be really so
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: I mean, I'm pretty evolving. So who you are, you know, last month to be totally different from this one. Yeah.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Bobby do the information we get processes and how
Windy Borjas: It's just sad that all that evolves, but
Windy Borjas: We still continue to just let the cycle run its course.
Windy Borjas: When it comes to addiction and the war on drugs. And you know what I mean. Yeah. Like, I feel I don't know I
Windy Borjas: I have trouble explaining like stuff when it comes to that pen, a topic or spiritual topics.
Windy Borjas: He I just have different views, I guess.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You identify with any spiritual practice will be
Windy Borjas: No, I, I guess I if I had to put a name to, I would say, Christian, just because Christian Catholic because that's just what my family based off of
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: That will you believe it.
But me,
Windy Borjas: I believe in my high my higher power. I don't have no
Windy Borjas: Certain name or no sir and belief. There's not a specific Bible or religion. I believe in more than the other.
Windy Borjas: I don't
Windy Borjas: I don't want to say, I don't believe in them. I mean, there's something there. Obviously, but come on now, they're pretty much all the same book.
Windy Borjas: Just in different languages different terms, it was all there's a God, and every one of them. There's a devil, and everyone or those wrong and every one of them, you know, I mean it's man made to me man made destroys man made is dark.
Windy Borjas: It's never peaceful or restful when it comes to mankind.
Windy Borjas: So I feel I guess I would call myself a spiritualist maybe
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Are you taking any medication for your
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Anxiety needs to be
Windy Borjas: No, um,
Windy Borjas: I remember
Windy Borjas: A point in time.
Windy Borjas: I can't even remember the doctor's name when I was diagnosed had started
Windy Borjas: Trying to work out. I don't know, a regimen or certain medications for me.
Windy Borjas: I dealt with anxiety.
Windy Borjas: Extremely
Windy Borjas: Intensely for even
Windy Borjas: someone my age. That's a lot stronger. But I remember my anxiety being this bad when I was a kid, a baby like 567 like I had the worst anxiety, like it was
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: What do you remember at five, six about the English
Windy Borjas: I was just always afraid of
Windy Borjas: Like the world ending like the end like dying like
Windy Borjas: And no one ever really
Windy Borjas: I guess, you know what I mean, took the time to like explain or confer so it just remain something that was unknown. It was the unknown to me. And in my mind that terrified me
Windy Borjas: Anything that
Windy Borjas: brought up the idea or the topic of death or the world ending or
Windy Borjas: Everybody just dying and being gone would trigger me
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: A little about your mom, you said that you when your mom was diagnosed with bipolar disorder.
Windy Borjas: Know me
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Okay, okay. Do Is your mom in the database currently living
Windy Borjas: My mom.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You have any relationship with your father.
Windy Borjas: Um, yeah, I did. He passed away when I was you.
Know, because
Windy Borjas: I wouldn't happen.
Windy Borjas: until I was about 14 maybe I was told it was all hard natural causes a heart attack.
Windy Borjas: A high blood pressure, high blood pressure, bad cholesterol and then
Windy Borjas: When I got older, I finally saw with my own eyes. It was a overdose.
Windy Borjas: A mixture of uppers and downers and cocaine and alcohol.
Windy Borjas: And that caused a heart attack.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: What do you mean on the song with your own
Windy Borjas: What do you mean
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Because you said it happened when you were younger, and then they told you a heart attack and then you said you got older, you saw with your own eyes that it was overdose.
Windy Borjas: Oh well, like the paperwork from when he died.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: By you saw that paperwork and so you got it. Okay, um,
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So dad wasn't added some mom was also an added
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Do you know they had any psychiatric illnesses mental health diagnosis.
I honestly
Windy Borjas: couldn't say, I would say no because I don't believe so.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Well, what's your relationship like with the money.
Windy Borjas: Complicated.
Windy Borjas: It's closely complicated. I get well distantly slightly closely complicated
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: What way.
Windy Borjas: Just because
Windy Borjas: I love her to the moon back. I mean, I
Windy Borjas: REMEMBER SEEING MY MOM as the most
Windy Borjas: amazing person.
Windy Borjas: I've ever known as a little girl.
Windy Borjas: And
Windy Borjas: She's very, very beautiful.
Windy Borjas: Everyone says she looks just like me. I didn't know she was like my hero. My whole life.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So what what makes it complicated
Windy Borjas: I can't tolerate it.
Windy Borjas: I am
Windy Borjas: I guess I just never really dealt with the resentment.
Windy Borjas: Or
Windy Borjas: Saw
Windy Borjas: Or felt
Windy Borjas: In any way that she made an attempt to make it better or explain you know I was addicted to drugs or I was an alcoholic or
Windy Borjas: Even
I'm sorry.
Windy Borjas: So tolerating her is always or has been difficult for me since
Windy Borjas: Like my early teen years.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: More awareness, you get one life that you uncovered.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: That some some hurt.
Windy Borjas: Pretty much.
Windy Borjas: Like I
Windy Borjas: My daughter's dad.
Windy Borjas: I believe he's my first to love ever like I said that before. I've had long term relationships before but like I've never known what love is ever
Windy Borjas: Not even from family, to be honest, not unconditional love like the way my fiance loves me.
Windy Borjas: Like
Windy Borjas: If it wasn't for him.
Windy Borjas: I probably wouldn't have a relationship with my mother.
Windy Borjas: Because it
Windy Borjas: Even to this day to this very moment, probably, if I were to call and start a conversation
Windy Borjas: She's a liar to me.
Windy Borjas: She's always lying. She's always trying to hide stuff and be sneaky and
Windy Borjas: You know it it's wrong. And I don't like it. And my fiance, you know, he's been in and out of the
Windy Borjas: Corrections Department his whole life, and he's very disciplined when it comes to honoring your word and being honest and not lying, and following through with what you say you're going to do, just because of
Windy Borjas: How things are in prison. So I think getting with him moving
Windy Borjas: Out here to Farmington with him and US building our own little structure.
Windy Borjas: And me, you know, taking a step back when it was finally up and running and settled and then looking back
Windy Borjas: At the structure. I thought I had from my mom and her first husband.
Windy Borjas: And her second has been now.
Windy Borjas: I just seen nothing but a lie.
Windy Borjas: I feel like
Windy Borjas: She gave birth to me, I'm
Windy Borjas: Covered my eyes covered my ears whispered to me that
Windy Borjas: She and our family and my dad and his family were saintly holy godly people and we don't do mean things and we do right and do what we're supposed to do go to school graduate, get a job, and pay bills and
Windy Borjas: I guess that's it be miserable. I see it as being miserable because I don't see that as a lifestyle. I'VE NEVER BEEN I'VE ALWAYS BEEN DIFFERENT FROM MY FAMILY on every side.
Windy Borjas: I've never fit in anywhere just because I
Windy Borjas: Oh, from what my government says I see through the bullshit.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: To do you call a relationship with your father.
Windy Borjas: Yes.
Windy Borjas: Good.
Windy Borjas: He was a
Windy Borjas: He was a great dad.
Windy Borjas: I know he loved me so much.
Windy Borjas: He didn't want me at first.
Windy Borjas: When my mom found out that
Windy Borjas: She was pregnant. He told her to get her abortion.
Windy Borjas: He's he had already had my brother and he didn't want to my kids. He was still young.
Windy Borjas: Younger to not all probably like early 30s late 20s, you know, still in the phase. I'm in now not ready to grow up.
Windy Borjas: But she couldn't do it, she said.
Windy Borjas: I'm so you eventually
Windy Borjas: I guess just accepted it, because he didn't have a choice.
Windy Borjas: And
Windy Borjas: My birth story is
Windy Borjas: He didn't know I was a girl.
Windy Borjas: They didn't know what I was they were never able to get a good enough picture to tell my mom and dad for sure.
Windy Borjas: And
Windy Borjas: According to his mom. My grandmother from him his side. He always wanted to be a dad since he was little, but to a little girl.
Windy Borjas: And he had my brother first
Windy Borjas: And their clothes they you know they have had a good relationship. He had him longer than I did.
Windy Borjas: But
Windy Borjas: I was his heart.
Windy Borjas: And he showed it
Windy Borjas: He worked here.
Windy Borjas: How does your house next to my grandma's in Idaho.
Windy Borjas: Me and my mom stayed there and my brother.
Windy Borjas: And my other brother to see I have two older brothers one brother, we have the same mom and different dads and then my other brother, we had the same dad, but different months.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Oh, okay. So two half brothers.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yeah. And then there's you can share mommy dad and they mentioned have a mother, sister to right
Windy Borjas: Um, she's not biological that she's my sister from my mom's first. Okay.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So any other siblings.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So for your mom and your dad. You're the youngest
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: What's the relationship like with your sibling.
Windy Borjas: Um,
Windy Borjas: My brother.
Windy Borjas: That's here in
Windy Borjas: New Mexico down in slo with my mom for my mom's side.
Windy Borjas: We've always been told, we should have been
Windy Borjas: Born as an identical twins.
Windy Borjas: Were
Windy Borjas: Extremely
Windy Borjas: I don't know alike in a scary way almost
Windy Borjas: He's just like a copy of me in the male version.
Windy Borjas: A little more
Windy Borjas: You know,
Windy Borjas: He's a guy so
Windy Borjas: rough around the edges, I guess, but not really.
Windy Borjas: We we balance out, we should have been twins, I believe it. He believes it. It's just
Windy Borjas: We've always had that that's what keeps us from drifting apart. Well, we're not
Windy Borjas: That relationship between siblings that talks everyday and send pictures and hangs out and goes places and stays over with each other and
Windy Borjas: Um,
Windy Borjas: We had that with my mom's first husband when we were younger. That was like the most stable I ever remember living around my brother.
Windy Borjas: After that, he got his first girlfriend or his girlfriend pregnant when he was 17 so he had a baby right when he graduated
Windy Borjas: And he's a rapper producer or was at the time.
Windy Borjas: So he was in that fast life.
Windy Borjas: Also became an addict. We became an added together, same point in time, same
Windy Borjas: Introduction. Pretty much everything the same.
Windy Borjas: But
Windy Borjas: We're cut from the same cloth so
Windy Borjas: Both of our flaws tend to bring out the worst in each other.
Windy Borjas: And if it's going to be an argument. It's going to be a fight, and it's not going to be a pretty one were both combative we're both
Windy Borjas: Both mostly
Windy Borjas: We have dad last word. And we will not back down. We will not stop.
Windy Borjas: It's just, I'm female and he's Mel. That's only difference. He's like 10 of me, but
Windy Borjas: We have always been very, very
Windy Borjas: combative
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So, um, what about the sister that you mentioned.
Windy Borjas: Um,
Windy Borjas: We don't really care for each other. When I first started dating.
Windy Borjas: I just didn't
Windy Borjas: I didn't like the fact that all of a sudden, my mom had a new girl, little girl to take care of my same age.
Windy Borjas: Same gender.
Windy Borjas: At a point in her life where she was no longer
Windy Borjas: Dumping us off and disappearing and you know i mean she finally matured a little bit and God stable and in that was like the most stable point. I remember in my life.
Windy Borjas: And I guess I kind of had a lot of spite towards my stepsister because she was able to be brought up.
Windy Borjas: I guess after
Windy Borjas: The storm. You know what I mean.
Windy Borjas: I feel like I was there.
Windy Borjas: And got drugged through it hanging on to my mom stayed there hanging on to her all the way through. And then this little girl comes along and gets my mom. Yeah, and half of her attention have over love and doesn't have to go through. Nothing with where she was.
Windy Borjas: So it was difficult to
Windy Borjas: Adjust but
Windy Borjas: We're so close in age we're only five months apart, um,
Windy Borjas: After our parents, you know, started me
Windy Borjas: Bringing us around each other and letting us
Windy Borjas: Spend a lot of time together. We became inseparable.
Windy Borjas: I, I'd say that was my only BEST FRIEND I EVER HAD
Windy Borjas: That
Windy Borjas: Has never
Windy Borjas: Ever done me wrong in any way.
Windy Borjas: Unless it had to do with pinching my sack adult or misplacing a little bit of money stupid stuff that causes addiction and that lifestyle, which she
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yeah, she's the one institution, you know, Mom.
Windy Borjas: No, no, no, no, no, no, no, that, that, that, okay, I'm Native American so that sister. She's my
Windy Borjas: Cousin in reality because my dad died, her dad took his places, my parents. Okay.
Windy Borjas: So she's, she's, she's my first cousin. Oh.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Mama speed it up a little here cuz we got about nine minutes left. And thank you so much, she shared a lot about your family in the past to traumas, you had to endure and I want to have enough time to find out.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Your family support right now, as well as talking about the treatment plan and schedule for session. So we're going to kind of speed through this part. And he said, You have one daughter, right.
Windy Borjas: She, she's
One.
Windy Borjas: Jalen hope.
Windy Borjas: I have one biological her Jalen, and then I have
Windy Borjas: A 10 year old any 12 year olds that are
Windy Borjas: My fiance's
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Do you have custody isn't valued fiancee in jail.
Windy Borjas: Um, yes okay i well i don't have full custody. Um, I, I do parent with his grandparents. Okay. They have the sole custody right now, but I just partner.
Windy Borjas: Parent with them.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Are you currently working with me.
Know,
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You have some legal issues. Yeah, what's going on, what's the, what's the criminal
Windy Borjas: As of right now, I'm fighting
Windy Borjas: To cases.
Windy Borjas: Both dealing with drugs.
Windy Borjas: Of all, let's say,
Windy Borjas: An estimate of eight charges total
Windy Borjas: Anywhere between Petty misdemeanor and a fourth degree felony.
Windy Borjas: Distributing
Windy Borjas: Possession.
Windy Borjas: Package for Sal, Mom.
Windy Borjas: I'm trying to think of what else it's to do just all that, as usual, possession of paraphernalia possession. The use of paraphernalia possession of marijuana
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And your fiance is facing is incarcerated 13 years. What was his permanent webinar. I'm
Windy Borjas: 16 years 16 years
Yeah.
Windy Borjas: Yeah, he's been an added his whole life as well. He sold on drugs. His whole life.
Windy Borjas: Since he was 1111 he left home or he didn't leave home. He just started taking care of the home at 11 because his mom had him when she was like 15
Windy Borjas: So he's lived that lifestyle. His whole life.
Windy Borjas: He is currently sober.
Windy Borjas: For the most part that I know about
Windy Borjas: I mean, I don't know what goes on in prisons. I know what goes on in jails, so
Windy Borjas: I just pray for the best that he's being honest. But I we have such a strong connection. I feel it. I know and I know he's sober.
Windy Borjas: Friends, I'm know
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: What are your hobbies. What do you like to do for fun.
Windy Borjas: Shop.
Windy Borjas: Um,
Windy Borjas: I recently started taking interest in I like decorating.
Windy Borjas: Not anything drastic, just like in my own little house.
Windy Borjas: Yeah, just all stuff like
Windy Borjas: I've been in such a
Windy Borjas: Endless pit of depression for so long since my dad his dad caught his first new case that he's in prison for
Windy Borjas: I don't know. I've just been
Windy Borjas: Floating stuck.
Windy Borjas: I guess.
Windy Borjas: Dating staying right right on that edge. I mean, I've been staying clean and sober, as I possibly can. I've been battling it the last these last three years have been probably the hardest.
Windy Borjas: Points in my life.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Why are you currently seeing things.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Let me go. The a treatment plan and then get something on the calendar so we can go a little more in depth and break down some of those traumas that you experience.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And come up with some healthy coping skills for you because right now. Like when you're stressed overwhelmed. How do we deal with it.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: As to let yourself be
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Talked to people. Do you do anything to keep you busy. What do you do
Windy Borjas: Um, I usually withdraw because I feel
Windy Borjas: The depth of how awful. I feel is just so overpowering.
Windy Borjas: It's gonna just like consume everybody. So I would draw from my grandmas and you know I leave the baby there because I can when I feel that bad. I can honestly feel it when she looks at me and I passed that awful heavy ugly filling into her. Yeah. You don't want a chance
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: I'm so where do you live with your grandma new baby.
Windy Borjas: I'm by myself. Oh, me and my daughter.
Windy Borjas: But she goes back and forth between me and grandma.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So how do you pay for rent and everything like that on mortgage looking not working.
Windy Borjas: Um, we had all I had.
Windy Borjas: Been working for a little bit. When my fiance was still fighting his case. Um, I saved every cent. I could, I was staying at my daughter's my grandmas. My grandparents were my daughter's day are is now.
Windy Borjas: They allowed me to stay there rent free because when he picked up the case he beat up a call and picked up massive drug charges.
Windy Borjas: Trafficking distributing um
Windy Borjas: We had just just begun to relapse together.
Windy Borjas: It was spiraling spiraling out of control. We were still selling drugs.
Windy Borjas: And he ended up going Joe and I was left alone.
Windy Borjas: Miles away from my hometown. My family only family. He has his our grandparents and our daughters.
Windy Borjas: I had stack. So many bags of drugs.
Windy Borjas: And
Windy Borjas: The person who showed me what
Windy Borjas: Love really feels like was gone.
Windy Borjas: And I couldn't take my own life. I felt that bad that I wanted to be gone, but
Windy Borjas: I couldn't
Windy Borjas: Get the balls to do that because I believe that selfish and that's
Windy Borjas: That's kind of sad.
Windy Borjas: Being that I have a little girl. You know what I mean.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: How long ago did you have that thought.
Windy Borjas: And this was when he picked up the charges. So this is like in August.
Windy Borjas: between August and October of
Windy Borjas: 2018
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Where they just thought
Windy Borjas: That what
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: What did you have a plan, or was it just thought
Windy Borjas: It was just
Windy Borjas: A feeling it wasn't a thought or a plan. It was just a feeling you're
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Passing emotion. Yeah. So with a treatment plan.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And that plan you already were you have to come in group once a week and make a scheduled appointments. So in that group, you're going to attend group weekly and we're going to be helping you to develop some relapse prevention and skills coping skills.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Connecting you with identify what your emotional relationship triggers are
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And helping you to find some healthy coping skills, aside from the isolation.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Will use different interventions food therapy relaxation mindfulness cognitive behavioral therapy Dialectical Behavioral therapy.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: All these techniques to help you tap into capture your thoughts stopping the thoughts and placing the more healthier because we understand that the expensive job us have impacted your mind. He thought process. The depression also take phobia.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And so meeting with you want to want to have to identify where these doctors thing and help you to find replacing thoughts, encouraging.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And then right now that you don't have any friends, but as you continue to thrive and become more self fulfilled through your, your actions within the community purpose. I want you to identify work environments will be healthy for you and which ones won't be
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So those are the things that will navigate
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And do that you're discharged from the program I want you to get connected again call us back. Get back in the program a relapse doesn't mean that you can't come back to the right.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And get back on the horse. Research shows that when people relapse and make it connected back again into a program it's it's a reduced rate of that. And the longer you're sober, the more opportunity to do more challenging path to prevent that.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Are there any short term or long term goals you want to add to your treatment.
Windy Borjas: Short term would be to
Windy Borjas: Get onto my routine our routine with my fiance, we've been kind of struggling a lot being away from one another, we've been fighting a lot and haven't really heard from him because they've been transferring him around.
Windy Borjas: Can't visit him yet so
Windy Borjas: He sent me a picture.
Windy Borjas: This week,
Windy Borjas: So that's like the first time I've seen him.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Love a lot of things I am hopeful that in therapy and the one on one, and having somebody to talk to. Because what I like about you, Wendy, your guide is enough.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You know you've been answering my questions and allow yourself to be vulnerable. So I can help you work through them.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So the next one you know won't have to spend too much time asking questions, I'll be able to really find out from you what you want to talk about me. Can you can take it.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So with your boyfriend. That's a short term goal. What about you, when's your next court here.
Windy Borjas: Um, I went to court today.
Windy Borjas: Being that I picked up a new case and a different county my lawyer from real Reba is trying to convince the DEA and my attorney.
Windy Borjas: Here in San Juan county to come to some kind of agreement where they dismiss the case down there and I do probation for these guys or vice versa. Being that I have been in recovery.
Windy Borjas: Even if
Windy Borjas: There have been, you know, dirty ways
Windy Borjas: It's been on and off. And I've been, you know, making a temp job searching I've, you know, managed to stay in my own home. I have my daughter. I'm, I'm not selling drugs. I'm not doing any illegal activities there kind of doing the most they can to help me.
Windy Borjas: Because they said that they don't see it a lot.
Windy Borjas: So I'm right now I don't have core until Mar 16
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: What do you have any
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Any personal goals that you're working towards this of course one of the goals will be kind of getting just getting on probation, so that you don't have to be incarcerated. Um, you mentioned employment, but any personal goals.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Um, hobbies things you want to start doing please
Windy Borjas: I
Windy Borjas: I want to Oregon.
Windy Borjas: Getting back to being a little more organized
Windy Borjas: Not so stuck in my slump, I guess.
Windy Borjas: Because then I feel things just pile up just like laundry. For example, I see my life is that pile of laundry and every day. I'm stuck depressed and
Windy Borjas: Lost in my own raw, you just piles up and piles up
Windy Borjas: And then when I finally come through the pile is just so big. It's too overwhelming.
Windy Borjas: I just want to walk away from it and start again. But the next time I turned back I have 100 of those enormous piles.
Windy Borjas: So I want to work on on just
Windy Borjas: Being more strict with myself when it comes to, you know,
Windy Borjas: My personal routine.
Windy Borjas: Because I feel that will benefit not only myself but my daughter.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Would you like to meet again so we can talk about more of this, and your goals and we
Um,
Windy Borjas: Is there, like, is it possible to do like like how I do one group, a week like one ONE ON ONE ON ONE WEEK OR one every other week or
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Whatever works for you. I'm open to once a week or every other week, whatever works with you.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Currently from next week. I have Wednesday at five o'clock available.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And I have
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Thursday at six o'clock.
Windy Borjas: And what's that day. I'm sorry.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Wednesday is March 4 at
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Five o'clock.
Windy Borjas: Or I could even do we
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Were trying to calculate it because I'm in Florida. So those two hours. So I got the mentally prepared for that one. So when four o'clock.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Know Wednesday at five o'clock.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Or Thursday.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: At six o'clock Thursday, the fifth
Windy Borjas: Let's go ahead and do
Windy Borjas: Wednesday.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So Wednesday at five o'clock.
Windy Borjas: Okay.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Do you have a calendar or something pizza. You remember
Windy Borjas: I have my my calendars and my notebook, but I have learned the
Windy Borjas: Amazing ness of this sticky notes.
Windy Borjas: I put them on my bathroom mirror
Windy Borjas: Over my stove.
Windy Borjas: On the door everywhere that I know I'm going to see
Yeah.
Windy Borjas: That's been kind of helping me get, you know, back to just being
Windy Borjas: More
Windy Borjas: situate situated.
Windy Borjas: Okay, so
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Wednesday, March for at five o'clock.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: We want to make the most of our time together, check into virtual clinic at about five or 10 minutes before that appointment. So we have the full time to talk. Okay.
Windy Borjas: Okay, Wednesday, March 4 at
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Five o'clock.
Windy Borjas: Club.
Windy Borjas: Oh. Alrighty.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Candle know that you made it to your bio psychosocial you were really hoping that you can make it so that we can keep you in the program and to get you situated. Glad to meet you one on one. Thank you so much for your time and trusting me with this information.
Windy Borjas: Thank you so much for your time. I appreciate you listening.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Thank you. Have a good night.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Baby
Windy Borjas: I will
Windy Borjas: Think. Bye bye.